---
title: "Happiness Intro"
date: "2019-04-18"
category: "Happiness"
---

### The history of measuring human wellbeing

The history of attempting to measure human wellbeing on a global scale
is still relatively new. After World War 2 and the Great Depression,
when countries were attempting to find ways to measure their
recoveries, economist Simon Kuznets developed the concept of a Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) to capture all economic production by
individuals, companies and the government in a single statistic. He
theorized that it should correlate to wellbeing since it would rise in
good times and fall in bad.

This was easily measurable and served as the primary measure of a
country's wellbeing for many years but over time, criticism arose that
growth in a country's economic output doesn't necessarily mean a
better life for it's citizens.

In 1990, UN economist Mahbub ul Haq created the Human Development
Index (HDI) to more accurately measure human wellbeing, which focused
on education, health expectancy, gender equality, and standard of
living. In 2012, UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon recognized the
importance of making happiness a goal of public policy.

### What is Happiness anyway?

<blockquote>
    <p>
    Happiness is the experience of joy, contentment, or positive
    well-being, combined with a sense that oneâ€™s life is good,
    meaningful, and worthwhile.
    </p>
    <footer>
    Psychologist Sonja Lyubomirsky in her book{" "}
    <cite>
        <a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0143114956">
        The How of Happiness
        </a>
    </cite>
    </footer>
</blockquote>

This definition clearly seperates happiness into two main parts, the
first, happiness as positive emotions such as joy, contentment,
interest and love and the second, as an evaluation of human wellbeing,
a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction that comes from living a good
life.

The emotional aspect is universal while the second depends on a
person's culture and life experiences. For example, when Sonja
Lyubomirsky did a research project asking people in America and Russia
to define happiness,American people said money, family, success,
having fun while Russian people said spiritual salvation, a world of
peace and beauty, mutual understanding among people.

Happiness is difficult to measure but if there is a strong
corrollation between happiness and quality of life, then if we can
find a way to model happiness in a society, then we can measure it's
quality of life, observe changes over time, refine our models and
maximize for policies that lead to more happiness and avoid policies
that lead to less happiness.

### Different Ways of Measuring Wellbeing

There have been different attempts at measuring wellbeing and they
will be described below. By visualizing these metrics of wellbeing
alongside the GDP per capita, we can see that there is a rough
correlation between increased GDP per capita and improved scores on
these wellbeing metrics.
